# Neo4J graph Database Metadata Management Prototype

Among the existing tools supporting a proper data governance within an organization, we will focus on metadata management software. Such tools collect and organize the metadata and interdependencies of an organization’s assets in a centralized repository in the form of a graph database. While information describing assets are important, the interaction between these assets also represents an important source of information for organizations. For example, queries use tables to create views or the definitions of a terms impacts the columns storing the information defined. In this project, we will attempt to partially reproduce such a repository by using as a starting point the AdventureWorks2017 database.

Given the scope of the assignment, we only cover some of the numerous functionalities provided by a metadata management tool. 
To create these functionalities, we rely on graph database technology: 
- **Monitoring communities and users:** Organizations usually do not act as one centralized entity; Different communities and departments exist, each with their own fields of expertise. It is therefore needed that ownership and responsibilities over data are split between organizational subgroups; For instance, HR maintains control over the HR data. However, resistance to change from employees, or fear of sharing information with other departments are not uncommon when trying to implement such software in an organization. Using a graph database, it would therefore be possible to generate a view on the number of data assets owned by a community, and the number of assets created recently (by using property creation date) etc. In other words, a graph database of the metadata would facilitate the monitoring of good data practices within the organization.
- **Impact analysis:** An organization is not a static environment; it is condemned to evolve. However, it might happen that a change request, for example regarding a definition, considerably impacts the organization due to the underlying changes on other assets depending on that definition. Some implications might be unknown when the decision is made. In the end, these implications could lead to more harm than good as they might require that numerous changes be made in various systems. We will therefore showcase one example in this report on how graph databases can help solve this issue and can support decision making in a management or IT context.
- **Centrality of data assets:** The more a node is linked to other nodes, the more likely it contains important metadata for an organization. If badly defined, the impact on the organization will be more important. To showcase this, we will use different centrality algorithms from Neo4j and explain their respective use.
